.TH ASTROD "1" "January 2014" "AstroPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
astrod \- astrophotography server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B astrod -dh?F
[
.BI \-b imagedir
] [
.BI \-q databasefile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR astrod (1)
program is a CORBA based server to control astrophotography
equipment remotely. It is the main component of a control system to
be mounted on the telescope, connected to the cameras, filter wheels,
focusers or adaptive optics units with short cables. Computers like
the Raspberry Pi are ideal for this type of application.

The 
.BR astrod (1)
program is designed to perform all camera control tasks autonomously.
So after the telescope has been set up and pointed to the object to
be fotographred, 
.BR astrod (1)
can be asked to calibrate the guide camera, start guiding on a selected
guide star, and a series of exposures with varying parameters can be
requested. The program then executes these exposure requests autonomously,
there is no need to have a control client connected to the server.
At the end of the observation program, a client can reconnect and collect
the images.

The
.BR astrod (1)
program does not do any image processing. Such processing is likely
to overwhelm a computer of the type mentionned, and is better done
off line. The only kind of image processing done is bad pixel interpolation
for guide cameras

As a simple command line client to access the functions, the program
.BR astro (1)
is supplied. It allows to access almost all functions of the 
.BR astrod (1)
server, in particular it can initiate calibration and guiding,
control cameras, retrieve images from cameras and submit exposure
requests to the task manager.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b imagedir
All images taken by the server are stored in the directory
.IR imagedir .
Nevertheless, images should normally not be taken directly from
this directory, rather the image interface of the CORBA IDL should
be used to access the images and delete them when they are no longer
needed. Most of the time, however, images will be requested through
the task interface of the server, and only through this task interface
is it possible to get access to the images together with all the parameters
of the task from which they were orginally exposed.

The default imge directory is the current working directory at startup.
.TP
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.B \-F
Stay in the foreground. Normally, 
.BR astrod (1)
places itself into the background when started, which is inconvenient
for debugging. Consequently, this option is mainly used for debugging.
.TP
.BR \-h , " "\-?
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-q databasefile
Tasks sent to the 
.BR astrod (1)
server are stored in an SQLite 3 database. When the observations are
complete, the computer is likely to be powered down, although not
all images have already been retrieved. When it is powered up again,
the database still contains all the information about the images,
and a client can collect the images from the server, and finally release 
the space taken up by the images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astro (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
