.TH ASTROCONFIG 1 "Sept 2014"
.SH NAME
astroconfig \- astrophotography configuration management 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B astroconfig
[
.I options
] 
{ get | set | delete } 
.I domain section name 
[
.I value
]

.B astroconfig
[
.I options
] 
imagerepo list

.B astroconfig
[
.I options
] 
imagerepo add
.I reponame directory

.B astroconfig
[
.I options
]
project add
.I projname
...

.B astroconfig
[
.I options
]
project { remove | show }
.I projname

.SH DESCRIPTION
The programs of the AstroPhotography need a lot of common configuration
information. This information is stored in a sqlite3 database and
managed through the 
.BR astrconfig (1)
command and some other tools, most importantly the 
.BR devicemapper (1)
command.

The first synopsis shows the 

Images are stored in image repositories, essentially directories
containing FITS files and a database containing metadata about the files.
The 
.BR imagerepo (1)
command is used to maintain the contents of these repositories, but
repositories are created using the 
.B imagerepo
subcommands of the
.BR astroconfig (1)
command.
The second and third synopsis show the commands used for this purpose.

Images are also groupd together using projects. A project contains
information about the repository is to used for the images, or what
object is to be imaged. The 
.B project
subcommands of the
.BR astroconfig (1)
command needed for project management are shown in the fourth and fifth
synopsis.

.SH CONFIGURATION COMMANDS
The configuration commands allow to set configuration variables.
Configuration variables are grouped domains, of which currently only
the 
.I global
domain is implemented. Within a domain, variables are grouped in
sections, which are arbitrary strings as defined by the consumers of the
configuration information. The top level section is designed by '.'.
The following subcommands are implemented:
.TP
.BI get \ domain\ section\ name
Get the value of variable 
.I name
in section
.I section
in domain
.IR domain ,
which currently must be 
.IR global .

.TP
.BI set \ domain\ section\ name\ value
Set the value of the variable named
.I name
in section
.I section
and domain
.IR domain .

.TP
.BI delete \ domain\ section\ name
Delete the configuration variable named
.I name
in section
.I section 
and domain
.IR domain .

.SH IMAGEREPO COMMANDS
The image repository commands are used to create, list and destroy
image repositories. These commands to not change the contents of the
image directories.

.TP
.BI imagerepo \ name \ list
Display a list of images contained in the image repository named
.IR name .
.TP
.BI imagerepo \ name \ add \ directory
Add an image repository named
.I name
to the configuration database. The images will be stored in the 
.IR directory ,
and the database containing the metadata will bi named 
.IR directory/.astro.db .
Any files contained in the directory will not be touched by this
command.
.TP
.BI imagerepo \ name \ remove
Remove the image repository named
.I name 
from the configuration database.
.SH PROJECT COMMANDS
A project is a collection of configuration information needed for a set
of astrophotography images. The name of the project allows to easily
access this configuration information information with a simple handle,
the project name. The
.B project
subcommands of the
.BR astroconfig (1)
command allow to change project information.
.TP
.B project list
.TP
.BI project\ add \ name\ attribute=value\ ...
Add a new project entry to the configuration. Additional parameters are
specified in the form of
.I attribute=value
pairs, for a list of known parameters check the section on project
attributes below.
.TP
.BI project\ show \ name
.TP
.BI project\ remove \ name
Remove the project named
.IR name .
The repository associated with the project is not affected by this operation.

.SH PROJECT ATTRIBUTES
The following attribute names can be used with projects:
.TP
description
A description of the project (at most 1024 characters). This field
is for display purposes only.
.TP
object
A concise description of the object to be imaged.
.TP
repository
The image repository to be used to store the images taken. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help,\-h
Display a help message.
.TP
.B \-\-debug,\-d
Increase the debug level
.TP
.BI \-\-config= config.db ,\-c \ config.db
The configuration is stored in a sqlite3 database file. This option
can be used to use a different database file than the default
.IR ~/.astrophoto.db .

.SH FILES
.I ~/.astrophoto.db

.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Mueller
