.TH FLAT "1" "January 2014" "AstroPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flat \- build a flat image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flat -dh?
[
.BI \-m modulename
] [
.BI \-C cameranumber
] [
.BI \-c ccdid
] [
.BI \-D darkfile
] [
.BI \-e exposuretime
] [
.BI \-n nimages
] [
.BI \-o flatfilename
] [
.BI \-t temperature
]
.I 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR flat (1)
command takes a couple of images with identical parameters and
converts them into a flat field image.
The flat field image will have double value pixels.
It will usually be more appropriate to use the
.BR getimages (1)
command to a set of images, and to turn them into a
flat field using the
.BR makeflat (1)
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C cameranumber
Choose the camera with number
.I cameranumber
with then module chosen.
.TP
.BI \-c ccid
Number of the CCD.
.TP
.BI \-D darkfile
Use 
.I darkfile
as the dark image to apply to the images retrieved before averaging
them into a flat field.
.TP
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.BI \-e exposuretime
Sets the exposure time for the exposures taken by the flat program
in seconds.
.TP
.BI \-o flatfile
The flat file to be written.
.TP
.BI \-m modulename
Take a camera from the module named
.BR modulename .
Cameras are numbered from 0 within a driver module.
.TP
.BI \-n nimages
Set the number of images to  take for the flat field to
.IR nimages .
.TP
.BI \-t temperature
Set the temperature to which the CCD should be cooled when taking
images. The temperature must be specified in degrees Celsius.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astrod (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
