.TH GETIMAGES "1" "January 2014" "AstroPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getimages \- get a number of images from a CCD camera
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getimages -Ddhl?
[
.BI \-C cameraid
] [
.BI \-c ccd
] [
.BI \-e exposuretime
] [
.BI \-F focusername
] [
.BI \-f focusvalue
] [
.BI \-m modulename
] [
.BI \-n nimages
] [
.BI \-o outputdir
] [
.BI \-p prefix
] [
.BI \-t temperature
] [
.BI \-w width
] [
.BI \-h height
] [
.BI \-x xoffset
] [
.BI \-y yoffset
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR getimages (1)
command takes a number of images using a given camera and ccd and
stores the images in FITS format in the directory specified by the
\-o option. The file name is constructed from the prefix, a sequence
number, and the extensions .fits.

The
.B \-t
option allows to cool the CCD to a temperature specified in degrees
Celsius. Exposures will begin as soon as the CCD temperature has
been reached.

Using the options
.BR \-x ,
.BR \-y ,
.B \-h
and
.BR \-w ,
a subrectangle  of the full CCD frame can be exposed. Binning is currently
not supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.BI \-b binning
Use 
.IR binning x binning
for the images.
.TP
.BI \-C cameraid
The number of the camera within the module. If not specified, the first
camera within the module is taken, which may not be right if more than
one camera driven by the same module is connected.
.TP
.BI \-c ccdid
Use CCD with number
.IR ccdid .
If not specified, the first CCD of the selected camera is used, which
is usually the main imaging CCD.
.TP
.B \-D
Closes the shutter for the duration of the exposure, producing 
dark images.
.TP
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.BI \-e exposuretime
Exposuretime in seconds for the images. Some cameras, e.g. the USB video
cameras can expose at 0.1ms resolution. Most CCD cameras for astrophotography
have 1ms resolution at best, some cameras have minimum exposure times as short
as 0.1s.
.TP
.BI \-F focusername
The name of the focuser to use for focusing. The getimages program has
no capability of focusing, but it can set a certain focus value. This is
mainly for testing, because when instantiating the simulator camera,
the focus is set randomly and without the ability to set the focus value,
it would be impossible to take in focus images with the simulated camera.
.TP
.BI \-f focusvalue
Set the focuser specified with the
.B \-F
option to the value
.IR focusvalue .
.TP
.B \-l
List the cameras and terminate without taking any images.
.TP
.BI \-m modulename
Open driver module named
.IR modulename .
.TP
.BI \-n nimages
The number of images to expose is set to
.BR nimages .
Note that images are first exposed, and only then written to the
output directory. This means that if the command is terminated
before all images have been taken, nothing will be written to the
output directory. If this is undesirable, use a script that calls
.BR getimages (1)
several times with 
.I nimages
set to 1 (the default) instead.
.TP
.BI \-o outputdir
Directory where to write the images.
.TP
.BI \-p prefix
Prefix to use to construct the filename. The file name within the
output directory will be of the form
.IR outputdir / prefix "" sequence .FITS.
The sequence number starts at 0 and is incremented for each image taken.
It has 3 places and is padded with leading zeros.
.TP
.BI \-t temperature
Temperature in degress Celsius of the CCD chip chosen.
.BR gettimes (1) waits until the temperature is reached before starting
any exposures.
.TP
.BI \-h height
Used to take sub images. Specifies the height of the rectangle to retrieve.
.TP
.BI \-w width
Used to take sub images. Specifies the width of the rectangle to retrieve.
.TP
.BI \-x xoffset
Used to take sub images. Specifies the x-offset of the lower left corner
of the image to retrieve.
.TP
.BI \-y yoffset
Used to take sub images. Specifies the y-offset of the lower left corner
of the image to retrieve.
.TP
.B \-?
Display a usage message and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astrod (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
