.TH GUIDER "1" "January 2014" "AstroPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
guider \- Test program for guider testing
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B guider -dh?
[
.I cameraoptions
] [
.I exposureoptions
] [
.BI \-k averagingradius
] [
.BI \-x xguidestar
] [
.BI \-y yguidestar
]

.B guider -dh? 
[
.I cameraoptions
]
.I guidecommands

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR guider (1)
program serves to test the guider process. It is much less functional
than the IDL interface to the guider functions of
.BR astrod (1),
accessible through the command line client.

The camera options specify a camera, and the 
.BR guider (1)
program assumes that the camera also has a guider port and that
it should use this port for guiding.

When started, the
.BR guider (1)
program starts the calibration process. When calibration succeeds, 
it starts guiding using the exact same parameters, so the calibration
star and the guider star must be identical, and the same exposure
parameters are used.

The second synopsis can be used to exercise the guider port of a camera.
Each guide command activates one output of the guider port for a certain
time before the next command is executed.

.SH GUIDE COMMANDS
Guide commands are pairs of the form 
.I output duration.
The duration is in milliseconds.
The 
.I output
is one of 
.IR D+ ,
.IR D- ,
.I R+ 
or
.I R-.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.BI \-k averaginradius
Specify the area over which pixel values should be used to estimate
the pixel position.
.TP
.BI \-x xguidestar
x-coordinate where to expect and keep the guide star.
.TP
.BI \-y yguidestar
y-coordinate where to expect and keep the guide star.
.SH "EXPOSURE OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-e exposuretime
Sets the exposure time for the exposures taken by the dark program
in seconds.
.TP
.BI \-p path
Directory where to write copies of the guiding images. If this is not
set, then guiding images are not saved.
.TP
.BI \-r r
Build a square of side 
.RI 2 r 
with the guider star in the center.
.SH "CAMERA OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-C cameranumber
Choose the camera with number
.I cameranumber
with then module chosen.
.TP
.BI \-c ccid
Number of the CCD.
.TP
.BI \-m modulename
Take a camera from the module named
.BR modulename .
Cameras are numbered from 0 within a driver module.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astrod (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
