.TH IMAGELOOP "1" "January 2014" "AstroPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imageloop \- take images in a loop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dark -dh?FNt
[
.I cameraoptions
] [
.I exposureoptions
] [
.BI \-n nimages
] [
.BI \-p period
] [
.BI \-o outdir
] [
.BI \-L longitude
] [
.BI \-l latitude
] [
.BI \-P imagescript
] [
.BI \-Q sequencescript
]
.I 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR imageloop (1)
program takes images in a loop, stores them in an ouput directory.
The main use of 
.BR imageloop (1)
is for imaging programs like an all sky camera lik Starlight
Express' Oculus sky cam, which allows to take images of the sky.
In this case, the 
.BR imageloop (1)
program can be used to take images all night, and even to put them
together into an MPEG movie.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.BI \-P imagescript
The programm
.I imagescript
is executed each time an image has been exposed.
The name of the file is given as the an argument to the program.
.TP
.BI \-Q sequencescript
When a sequence is complete, e.g. after a night when the
.B \-N
option is used, the 
.I sequencescript 
is called with the name of the directory where the images are found.
.TP
.BI \-n nimages
Set the number of images to  take for the dark field to
.IR nimages .
.TP
.BI \-E mean
adapt the exposure time in order to achieve a mean pixel value
of 
.IR mean .
.TP
.BI \-M median
adapt the exposreu time order to achieve a median pixel value of
.IR median .
.TP
.BI \-F
Stay in the foreground. Normally, puts itself in the background.
.TP
.BI \-t
include timestamps in file names.
.TP
.BI \-N
Takes images during the night only. This requires that the
longitude and latitude are specified using the 
.B \-L
and
.B \-l
options.
.TP
.BI \-p period
Period between images. 
.TP
.BI \-L longitude
Set the longitude of the observing point.
.TP
.BI \-l latitude
Set the latitude of the observing point.
.TP
.BI \-n nimages
The number of images to take in the loop. This option is incompatible
with the 
.B \-N
option.
.TP
.BI \-o outputdir
Directory where the exposed images are stored in FITS format. 
If the
.B \-N
option is used, then the programm creates a directory hierarchy
with a directory for the year, the month and the day.

.SH CAMERA OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C cameranumber
Choose the camera with number
.I cameranumber
with then module chosen.
.TP
.BI \-c ccid
Number of the CCD.
.TP
.BI \-m modulename
Take a camera from the module named
.BR modulename .
Cameras are numbered from 0 within a driver module.

.SH EXPOSURE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e exposuretime
Sets the exposure time for the exposures taken by the dark program
in seconds.
.TP
.BI \-w width
Width of the area to expose.
.TP
.BI \-h height
Height of the area to expose.
.TP
.BI \-x xoffset
x-coordinate of the lower left corner of the area to expose.
.TP
.BI \-y yoffset
y-coordinate of the lower left corner of the area to expose.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astrod (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
