.TH IMAGEINFO "1" "January 2014" "AstropPhotography tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imageinfo \- display information about an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imageinfo [ options ]
.I images
...
.I 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR imageinfo (1)
command displays information about pixel values of each image file
specified on the command line.
It displays minimum, mean, median
and maximum value. In addition, the number of NaNs is displayed
if the pixel type allows for NaNs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c,\-\-config= config
Use a configuration detabase different from the default
.IR ~/.astrophoto.db .
.TP
.B \-d,\-\-debug
increase the debug level.
.TP
.B \-f,\-\-fits
In addition to the pixel related information, also show the information
contained in the FITS headers.
.TP
.B \-h,\-\-help
Display a help message about the available commands and exit.
.TP
.BI \-r,\-\-repo= repository
Instead of from files, read image information from the image repository
named
.IR repository .
In this case, the 
.I images
arguments are ids (numbers) specifying the images in the repository.
There are no glob pattern matching available for these ids, instead
one should use tools like 
.BR seq (1)
to produce sequences of ids.
.TP
.B \-v,\-\-verbose
Verbose display. In addition to the pixel value information, information
about the pixel type and image depth is displayed in verbose display.
For the meaning of the attributes see the section ATTRIBUTES below.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
The results of imageinfo are displayed as a list of attribute=value
pairs. The following attributes are available, some only in verbose
mode. Information only displayed in verbose mode is marked by a (V).

.TP
Bpp
The number of bytes per pixel (V).
.TP
bpp
The number of bits per pixel (V).
.TP
max
The maximum of the actual values of the image.
.TP
maxvalue
The maximum possible value of a pixel (V).
.TP
mean
The mean of the actual pixel values of the image.
.TP
median
The median of the actual pixel values of the image.
.TP
min
The minimum of the actual values of the image.
.TP
minvalue
The minimum possible value of a pixel (V).
.TP
nans
Number of nans of a floating point image. They usually correspond
to bad pixels. When images are transformed, some areas may not be covered
by image data and a are filled in with Nans. In these cases, an excessive
number of nans is displayed. Using Nans ensures that these pixels are
never used to compute any displayable pixel.
This is attribute is not displayed for images with integer pixels.
.TP
pixel_type
Type of pixel. This is the C++ type identifier of the pixel type (V).
.TP
planes
The number of planes, typically 1 for raw and monochrome images, 
3 for processed RGB images.
.SH FILES
.IR ~/.astrophoto.db
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR astrod (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mueller
